[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: How would
it sound to move from suffering
to grace?
Grace is a word that
is emerging more
as we become more aware that we
are not on this journey alone,
and there are forces aligned
with us, including our higher
self, to move us through life.
Tiffany Barsotti is here to
speak about moving into grace
as we grow through life.
It's good to see
you again, Tiffany.
>> TIFFANY BARSOTTI: You
too, thank you so much.
>> REGINA: It's been a few
years since our last interview,
right?
In the last one, we really got
into more of what, I think,
your dissertation
work was at one point,
and this incredibly beautiful
and complex understanding
of how the quantum field of
consciousness, as I recall it,
joins in through the
physical really through part
of the limbic system.
Was that part of it?
You refresh us on what--
so people can kind of get
an idea of where we were before,
and they can also go back
and watch that interview.
It's been a long time.
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah.
I think it was towards the
end of 2015 when it came out.
So, yeah.
I'm saying that there's a nexus
to this body-mind connection
as a way of knowing our higher
self and knowing spirit,
and the collection of
that is the vagus nerve,
this little-known chakra
called the alta major,
and the reticular
activating system,
that just all happen
to line up nicely
right in the back
of the head, right
at the occipital ridge
area in that little divot.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> BARSOTTI: So this is an
area that's really interesting.
Needs a lot more
research, because we still
can't see it on the fMRI.
>> REGINA: It does.
And more and more
researchers are coming out
with this kind of new and
mysterious understanding
of the function of
the vagus nerve.
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And talk a
little bit about that.
Because I hear it from
a lot of quarters now.
There's not a
consistent story yet,
but maybe you know of something
common to all the stories
that is emerging through this.
So tell us what
the vagus nerve is
and the stories
that are emerging
in your understanding of what
it actually is capable of.
>> BARSOTTI:
Beautiful, thank you.
It's a complex
system, because it's
known as the 10th cranial
nerve in the nervous system
that branches out
of the brain stem.
And what it's doing is wandering
all the way through the body.
It touches all the organs,
especially the heart
and the gut.
So some of the
recent research is
related both to
behavioral medicine,
like traumas and the
psychiatry and psyche,
but it's also in the microbiome.
And they're looking
at it as being
sort of the pathways
that connect
the gut-brain connection, and
how it is that we are actually
these efferent signals,
which means they go up
towards the brain, that it's
not just a one-way track,
as is often taught in
medical school 15 years ago.
So there's more
theory around that
now, as far as it being
a pathway, because
of all these efferent
signals, as well
as the polyvagal vagal
theory, which I love.
It's constantly being expanded
upon by Stephen Porges.
And he's really dealing with
this in the realm of psychiatry
and trauma.
And what we're
saying now about it--
and having a better
understanding--
is that we are truly wired,
naturally wired, for trust,
love, vulnerability, bliss.
Candace Pert's work taught
us that about the endorphins.
But we're really seeing
these nerve fibers
being able to tell us
so much more about,
this is truly who we really are.
So the vagus very reflexive
in that it's-- some would say
in the neural field
that it's plastic,
that we have the ability to wire
it the way that we need to wire
it.
Essentially, the whole
body can be rewired.
So as we step out of suffering,
and we step more and get off
the laws of karma and more
into the laws of grace,
then I think that that gives
us some hope with rewiring
our nervous system.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
This is a total aside and
it's totally personal,
but through the years I would
go to my kinesiologist, who's
a brilliant kinesiologist,
leading-edge research and all.
And kind of had the same issues.
My body doesn't create--
it creates virtually
no cortisol.
It's a weird, very
strange birth defect.
And so the word that
kept coming up is,
he kept talking about the
involvement of the vagus nerve.
Well, this would involve--
I found, as the years
went on, I started seeing
the complex of events, myself.
And I saw even where fear
would change the outcome.
And the vagus
nerve was involved.
And fear because an
event was beginning
to happen which is
extreme, as long
as I could avoid any kind
of fear or emotional input
into the event, I
could actually have
it track a different direction,
which takes discipline,
because otherwise I'm lying
somewhere unconscious, right?
What's going on?
But that effects all the
way through to the guts.
>> BARSOTTI: Everywhere.
>> REGINA: Unconsciousness to
the guts to fear intersecting
control over emotions
in those moments.
Would that be something that
would fit the pattern of what
you're talking about, this
multidimensional pathway
that we're talking
about, the vagus nerve?
>> BARSOTTI: Absolutely, 100%.
And what you're demonstrating
in that that's so exciting
is how you've been
able to literally put
your mind elsewhere.
>> REGINA: Yeah, I can say,
I know this is happening,
it is not happening.
I'm not going to allow
this to continue happening.
Staying calm, calm,
cool and calm.
Knowing the drill.
I've been there so many times.
I know the drill,
and many times now,
I've been able to
stay conscious instead
of going unconscious by
not-- but as soon as I say,
oh, no, it's happening, the
fear floods the body and, boom,
it's a completely
different outcome.
>> BARSOTTI: Totally.
Good job.
>> REGINA: Thank you.
Thank you.
Maybe I just needed validation
that I'm doing a good job.
No, but I'm saying, I
remember that because it
was all about the vagus nerve.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
Yes.
It's the communicative
web in the body.
The part that I'm also
interested in starting
to get into more and more--
and this is actually what
took me to graduate school.
I ended up in graduate
seminary, but--
I was really interested in
what the eyes are doing,
because the eyes are
only really connected
through the optic
nerve and fascia.
So there's so many
different types
of fascia throughout the body.
Well, that webbing, that's a
universal, ubiquitous component
to how our systems
are connected.
I mean, it's our outward skin.
One of my advisors for my
thesis is Clair Francomano
and her expertise is in
fascia, and she told me
during the process of defending
my thesis that there's
over 4,000 different
types of fascia.
So we have a huge way to go
here to have some understanding.
But I'm really interested
because when we see something--
if I see something-- but
even if you're not sighted,
you still sense.
You still have this--
you know what your
environment is.
We have receptors
that are very tuned.
You know?
I think that the latest
number is four billion bits
of information, is what
our field is processing,
whereas maybe--
>> REGINA: At any given time.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
The brain is only capable
of about 128 or something--
I don't know where
these numbers come from.
>> REGINA: It's interesting.
So what you're
really beginning--
you've seen a larger picture
emerge in all of this,
and we can no longer
afford the luxury
of thinking that the mind, the
body, the soul, the spirit,
the astral is separate.
There's nothing that's
separate from the other.
But this is now happening more
through the world of science.
The world of science
is validating it.
So after you went down
that road, you began--
some of the people that
have been your influences
are ones that I greatly
admire, and maybe you
can talk about the pieces that
the ancient Egyptian teachings
brought in, Sri Aurobindo, who
is lesser-known to many people,
Rudolf Steiner.
How they contributed to
this body of knowledge.
Because all of them
understood the depths
of our multi-dimensionality.
>> BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
These teachers
are other-worldly.
They're polymaths or
polyglots with their access
to information,
and I accidentally
stumbled on each of them.
So in some of my work when I
was at school-- and, you know,
it's the journey to
know thyself, right?
So much of the work I was doing
was really a lot on myself,
before we started
working on other people.
And I found that the
thoughts kept thinking me,
and I would be led
to Steiner's work,
or I would be led to the
ancient Egyptians' work, and Sri
Aurobindo, of course.
So the area of focus
where I have been
is looking at the subconscious
and unconscious realms.
So that takes us
into more modern day
of what Carl Jung and
Caroline Myss Eddinger,
and so many other people
have been talking about.
So that's more modern
time, but we have
these works to build off of.
So what really got
me so excited is
when I've been studying this
nature of the subconscious
selves and I was looking for,
what's the emanation of this?
Where were these coming from?
And I found roots of
it in ancient Egypt,
and they taught that there
were nine eyes of light.
And they each have their
names and sort of attributes
and the sort of the
segments within our field
that they are responsible for.
Steiner also said that
there were nine selves.
And Jesus's
teachings, he has said
that there are seven
mansions within my mansion.
Teresa of Avila,
The Interior Castle,
spoke of the seven levels.
Caroline Myss developed
her work even more.
So there's been this root.
And Sri Aurobindo spoke
of the many selves.
And he's got dedicated books
that the mother has written on
after his passing.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> BARSOTTI: So that takes
these teachings even further.
>> REGINA: And I think--
here I have this
one comment down,
it of falls into line with this.
It was Freud.
Freud said he was pessimistic
that people could actually
overcome the darkness
that crippled them
from the unconscious mind.
And here he's trying
to muck around and deal
with the unconscious
exclusively,
and he ends up a pessimist.
I don't think you can do it.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
Exactly.
>> REGINA: And that's probably
because the lens he was looking
through didn't have the
tools to maybe understand
the multi-dimensionality, but
also the history of what feeds
the subconscious.
Because that requires a
buy-in on another level
he didn't really have.
>> BARSOTTI: No.
And people may hate
me for saying this,
but I actually don't think
that Freud did his own work.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> BARSOTTI: So this
is something that--
we can look through it,
and I'm grateful for what
he has added to the body of
how we look at psychiatry
and psychology and
all of that, because I
think that we've really
had a lot to build off of.
However, it was incomplete.
>> REGINA: Very incomplete.
>> BARSOTTI: As is
a lot of teachers.
>> REGINA: So it was
interesting that,
when all was said and done,
no, I don't think we can look
at it.
I don't think we can
do anything with this.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And so in your work,
I mean, you work individually--
besides being a
lecturer and author,
you also work
individually with people,
so you have to take all of
these aspects of their being
into consideration.
So now we go into
the area that--
not so much for
our audience here,
we have a very
open-minded audience,
but still, some people
buck a bit, which
is the notion that the
unconscious or subconscious is
a repository for
everything that's been,
everything we have experienced
within our soul's journey.
>> BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: So can you imagine
how much baggage that is?
>> BARSOTTI: A lot of stuff.
>> REGINA: Every life, every
event that has ever made its
imprint on us, those
pixels still carry forward,
even if we don't know
them and can't feel them.
You go ahead and
riff on this one.
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah, absolutely.
Thank you.
Pixels is a great word.
And when I find evidence
for-- and I've totally changed
my practice in the years.
It used to be that I was so was
dedicated into the past lives,
and what I found is that
there's a lot of, like, oh, I
have fear around that.
And so I just started calling
the majority of my work
emotional memory
therapy, because I
don't care where it
is that we find these,
because it doesn't matter.
If we happen to
land in a past life,
I hope that the person
that I'm working with
is open enough to continue
to go down that path,
because a lot gets resolved
if that's what happens.
But I don't feel
the need to open up
the book to all of that
documentary drama we've all
lived, right?
Couple of points here,
though, is that I really
feel that we have
this amalgamation
of, in our history-history, our
past, deep, distant history,
that is meant to inform us.
But it's also not supposed to
be this whole cascade that we
deal with all in this lifetime.
We've got enough.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: But it is our high
self that I believe that has
aligned this group of
subconscious selves for this
lifetime, and this
sort of family dynamic,
this set of friends,
this social environment,
all of these sorts of things
that collectively create this
current experience.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
There's a woman who
I've mentioned before,
who has been a
channeler in the past,
and whenever the beings were
speaking to the person sitting
before them, questions
had to be very specific,
the reason being here you have
who knows how many thousands
or millions of
pixels of events that
are within the
subconscious but beyond
below the cognizant level.
And they would say the
best question was always,
can you tell me any
information from the past
that is specifically
informing or directing me
in this lifetime?
And then the show
of pixels would all
narrow down to one or two.
This is the only thing relevant
in all of that bag of material
that is really--
you've come to work on
in this one lifetime.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
And Dolores Cannon got
into that a little bit
towards the end of her
life, and it was still,
for the majority
of her career, she
was focused on what all
of these had to teach us.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: And so we have
those floodgates that can open
up like that.
I have not seen that do a whole
lot of service for people.
>> REGINA: Don't
need floodgates.
>> BARSOTTI: No.
Being more pinpointed in
where we go and how we do it.
And what I really find
is that the subconscious,
its prime directive is to
keep us healthy and alive,
so it's never going to bring up
anything that we can't handle.
And if we just
operate from there,
but we actually
allow the emotions,
we allow the energy that needs
to come up through the system
to be our teacher,
to be our guide,
then we can move
through these things.
>> REGINA: To help
resolve and heal.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
But a lot of people
push it down,
like I can't feel that, I can't
deal with that, it's too much.
>> REGINA: Right.
And the fact of the
matter is, there
is a grace in coming
in without memory,
without conscious memory of
the past, for the most part.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
>> REGINA: We might see a
little flicker here and there,
but by and large, what good
could that possibly do a person
who has come to
experience a thing or two?
To have all that in front
of them, and everything
they've ever been implicated
in, or desired, or whatnot.
So there is a grace into
this lack of memory.
Because a lot of people
complain about it and say,
I just don't understand why
I can't remember my past.
Well, maybe it's not
in our best interest
to remember too much at
one given time, right?
>> BARSOTTI: Agreed.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And so for you,
the dark side, you
were just seeing the
shadow or the emotions.
That's part of your
process, is you
do need to look at and start
exploring into the more
challenging part of ourselves.
>> BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: So let's
talk about that.
>> BARSOTTI: So I have a
very strong belief that,
when we know our shadow,
we get closer to a source.
Because this really is a
journey to know thyself.
And as we get closer to
understanding our shadow,
and not be afraid
of our shadow, is
to have that opportunity
for the knowledge
for the transcendence, and
to gather the little bread
crumbs that are on our path.
And sometimes they're
in our shadow elements.
And so if we can
experience fully our shadow
and welcome it, not
be terrified of it,
then we grow through that.
And it also does a
couple of other things.
When we have the experience of
our shadow, it helps us to ask,
and when we ask,
we're creating more
of our vertical
relationship, and not
being in the horizontal plane,
which is where so much fear is.
So if we nurture
that vertical even
as we are addressing
the shadow, it's
just to say thank you anyway.
You don't even know why
you're saying thank you,
but to operate from
a place of gratitude
immediately starts
to transcend that.
So the shadow work is
so vitally important.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: And I'd just like
to encourage everybody to have
the willingness to go there.
I know it can be scary.
I know that that's real.
However, once you get
there, you realize
there's no prickliness to
the ugly green monster.
>> REGINA: Usually it's
just a sad and neglected,
disempowered part that is
struggling to be addressed
on some level, or
to be acknowledged.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
>> REGINA: OK, so that goes to
Carolyn Myss's work a little
bit.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
>> REGINA: OK.
Because you did
study hers, as well.
And this whole
notion-- and this has
to do with the shadow to
large degree, the four
basic archetypes, right?
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
>> REGINA: The saboteur, the
prostitute, the inner child,
and the victim.
And these are shadowy
forces within us.
Let's talk about
these archetypes.
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah,
both shadow and light.
>> REGINA: And light, yes.
>> BARSOTTI: So I
really appreciate--
I had the good fortune
of studying with her
for an extended period
of time, over five years,
and there was a lot put in
towards these shadow-- sorry,
these archetypes of survival.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> BARSOTTI: And so if we
understand that the saboteur is
really there to be our
teacher, one of the things that
I'm really propagating and
wanting to go forward with is
that, how do we move from
the archetypes of survival
to the archetypes of grace?
But we have to
know these aspects.
So that the victim is--
let's say that we have
a voice that constantly
sort of victimizing ourselves,
or victimizing and poking
other people.
If we look at our motivation
as to why we're doing that,
both to ourselves
and to others, that
helps us turn on
our accessibility
of making a new choice.
But if we're constantly
operating out
of that same pattern, now
we're on the drama triangle.
Now we're chasing
ourselves all over,
from victim,
rescuer, persecutor,
and back and forth, which is
a horrible, seductive loop
that we have to get off of.
And then the sabotage is
like the sabotaging thoughts,
the victimizing is what we
do to act on those thoughts,
and then the prostitute
is how we give away
our power, and then
the inner child--
inner child is just so
blessed and beautiful,
and to nurture it, but not
to be running our life out
of the inner child.
But our inner child can--
the curiosity, the playfulness.
Wouldn't that be fun to bring
that into absolutely everything
that we do as an adult?
>> REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
If you don't mind,
in a couple of cases
where you've worked with
people, specifically
one of these archetypes,
like the victim,
for example, tell us
about what you perceived
as their transformation
through that
particular archetype.
Because this really moves
us toward the story of race
anyway.
>> BARSOTTI: Totally.
Recently I started working in
a recovery center, which has
been an interesting challenge.
And really realizing how
much this trauma triangle
plays into the everyday life.
So what I notice is that, when
somebody is operating a victim,
they're doing the rescuer-victim
thing back and forth,
and it's like they keep
each other in a job.
So what I notice--
the first story that comes
to mind as you ask me this
is that recently,
just the other day,
I was working in the recovery
center and this woman,
I brought up to her about not
just the victim conversation,
but about--
she was saying, I really
thought how good of a person
I was, because I was always
taking care of everybody else's
needs, and all of that.
And I was like,
that's manipulation.
You're manipulating
people to like you.
She's like, you're right.
I just want
everybody to like me.
And I'm, like, a
really good person.
This is the
realization she got to.
I was like, uh-uh.
Stop it.
That's the vampire archetype.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: That you actually
need to be in your own light,
not trying--
>> REGINA: You want everybody
to like you, to feed you.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes, exactly.
It's the feeding thing.
Right?
It's like, I need your
light in order to survive.
No, get your own light.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: Stay
in your own light.
And so that was, like,
this major turning moment
where she was like--
and she has been in
recovery multiple times.
She's like, nobody has ever
said that I was a manipulation.
That was all a manipulation,
what I was doing.
And I was like, putting
it on the table right now.
That's exactly what
you were doing.
So what new choice
would you make?
And she really wasn't ready
to give an answer right then.
She was like, I really
have to think about it,
because this is
years of behavior.
>> REGINA: Well, an
addictive behavior.
Like you say, it's kind of a
seductive cycle that we get on.
There are a lot
of dense emotions,
and you're getting your charge,
even if it's negatively,
out of those dense emotions.
>> BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: And I'm sure-- we've
all had these kind of self-talk
loops where we go back and forth
between one thing or another.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
>> REGINA: Right?
OK, so let's talk about maybe
an example with the rescuer.
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah.
So the rescuer, this
is co-dependency.
And I really believe
that this is an abuse
of the divine feminine.
And if we can really understand
what codependency is--
and for the record,
let me just say,
it's putting everybody
else's needs before yours,
and making sure that everybody
else's needs are met,
and then you ultimately
are left empty.
I also see this energy a
lot around breast cancer,
when I'm working with
people with breast cancer.
I'm constantly looking
for these nuggets
of, where's the resentment
and grief, where's the guilt,
and where is this activity
of constant codependency?
Because we need to
train that out of it.
So that this rescuer--
>> REGINA: That would be more
under the prostitute archetype,
kind of giving in
power and energy away?
>> BARSOTTI: It can be.
>> REGINA: OK.
But go ahead, yeah.
>> BARSOTTI: It can be.
You can really get these all
of these that kind of link up.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> BARSOTTI: So the rescuer has
this habit of needing to feel
important and feel purposeful by
taking care of everybody else,
but then leaving
themselves empty.
That just isn't good
for us to do anymore,
and it makes the pendulum swing
too far in the other direction,
towards narcissism.
And the match made in
hell is the narcissist
and the codependent.
>> REGINA: Right.
And there's a lot of that,
because they need each other.
>> BARSOTTI: They do.
But that's what
keeps them in a job.
And if we could
just recognize that,
if we could take care of our own
needs and stop feeling the need
that you need to be filled
up by somebody else's, then
you can shift that.
>> REGINA: And
isn't it true, also,
that some people that do this,
that are constantly giving
their energy away, is
simply because of a lack
of self-worth?
Thinking, if I don't
do that, they're not
going to like me, or whatnot?
There's that part of it, too.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
And that is where it
ties into the prostitute.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: Because
I see that this--
I call these archetypes
of survival kind
of like the inner
critic committee.
They got all their information
from our upbringing,
and school, society,
parental, grandparents,
whatever the situation was
that we were raised in,
a lot of that
information is there.
So this prostitute is looking
for its sense of belonging,
really, where do I fit
in, but it's also the need
to step into authenticity.
And that's where it
becomes more empowered.
>> REGINA: Right.
What about the saboteur?
>> BARSOTTI: The saboteur,
it can become the discerner
of truth, as it
can transcend that,
I don't need to
sabotage anymore.
>> REGINA: Any cases that come
up that really exemplify that?
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah.
Let me say this is a really
important thing, too.
What I notice with
this inner critic
committee, or the
archetypes of survival,
they have two main
fear points, which
are unworthy and unlovable.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> BARSOTTI: I'm not
enough, unworthy,
kind of all the same
thing, and unlovable.
Those are the core wounds that
pretty much all of humanity
are healing.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: So the saboteur
is where, let's say,
weight issues.
Oftentimes we will have,
oh, I shouldn't eat that,
or I shouldn't do that.
And the voice is the saboteur.
This is how I've
teased this apart.
This is not Caroline Myss's
work, this is my estimation,
and what I've seen.
The saboteur is the one that has
the voice of, oh, oh my god, I
want to eat that whole
pie, or whatever it is.
The victim part, the
victimizer part of us,
will actually do it, will
actually take the action.
So the saboteur has the tendency
now, with awareness, to say,
OK, what's the truth here?
Do I need that whole pie?
What do I actually really need?
If I ask myself that, it's
not the pie that I need,
I actually need some
other kind of soothing.
I need something else.
What just happened that I
can work further upstream
and be able to discern
what my needs truly are?
Because it's not the pie.
>> REGINA: Right.
But on the negatively
afflicted side of the saboteur,
would say what?
>> BARSOTTI: I'm eating it.
>> REGINA: I'm eating it.
>> BARSOTTI: I'm going
to fall into the habit,
I'm going to fall into the
addictive kind of tendencies.
I'm going to have
the drink, I'm going
to do the things that I know
already that that actually
take me under.
>> REGINA: But that is the very
place that has the potential
to rise above it, as you say.
>> BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
What about the inner child?
>> BARSOTTI: Oh,
the inner child.
You know, Louise Hay
just passed recently,
and she taught a lot
on the inner child.
And once again, as much
as I love her work,
it was very incomplete.
And I would say that my
inner child has taught me
a lot through the pathways
of traversing other people's
inner child.
And what I have found
is, with our inner child,
they can call the shots.
Like in relationships.
I just want a man.
I just need to feel important.
I just need to feel grounded,
because of the relationship.
Or I just need to have a mother.
I need to have somebody--
as we're grown.
This is our inner
child running the show.
So if we emancipate and
really see the inner child
as being an opportunity to
get into playfulness, to get
into a place of
curiosity, then it
doesn't need to feel like
it's running the show.
But there is a place for it.
>> REGINA: So all these
archetypes end up holding us
kind of hostage on
some level, right?
And you're trying--
what you're saying is,
we need to move away
from the common--
well, the way you
understand the word karma.
Everyone understands the
word karma differently,
so first explain what
you mean by karma.
Away from karma into this
flow of grace, right?
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
So I'm really meaning
more of that kind
of the pedestrian version
of karma, because karma
is a whole deep subject
which we can spend
an entire hour talking about,
but karma in the realm of cause
and effect, but specifically
dealing with the fact
that what I see
over and over again
is the need to step
off the karmic wheel.
We see how cyclically, I'm
just doing what my parents did.
I'm just-- this learned
behavior is advanced forward,
and I'm just reenacting
my same childhood.
>> REGINA: Or deep past.
I've always done this.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
Exactly And that's--
I've always done this.
It's like, well,
that that's supposed
to be an excuse of some type,
just because it's a habit?
No.
I believe we're meant
to be looking at this.
So that's in which way I'm
speaking about the karma is,
when we look at a
certain event, do you
want to reproduce
that in the same way?
You know, wars.
We've been in wars forever,
since the evolutionary--
well, I don't want
to say forever,
because I don't know that
it was always about war,
but Steiner said that the Earth
is where conscious awakening
happens, versus other planets.
>> REGINA: Right, right.
Exactly.
Well, it is a place
of high contrast.
That's fair to say.
means high contrast means
the beauty of choice.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
>> REGINA: But again, now this
takes us to the next level.
When you're looking
at choice, it's
hard to make a
good choice if you
don't hear the whisper
of your own higher mind,
your own higher self, right?
>> BARSOTTI: So true.
>> REGINA: So how much of your
work is really centered around
a person being able to
connect with their own voice?
>> BARSOTTI: 100%.
300%.
Mind, body, spirit.
That is my-- if I
haven't helped a person
to hear their inner voice
in whatever way it comes,
whether it's just a
sensing and a knowing
or an actual
audible kind of cue,
or however it comes
in for a person,
then I haven't been
successful in my job.
And it's not 100% my
responsibility, either.
There are people that will
come and not actually do
the work, of course.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: So I have
to know that piece.
But what I'm fully
looking for is, how can I
be of service to this person by
turning on their own intuition?
Because I want to
give the tools.
I don't want to have to
do one-on-work therapy--
one-on-one-- forever.
And I don't believe
that we're supposed
to be in therapy for the
rest of our lives, either.
So what is it that
we can help to turn
on people's inner voice?
And a lot of this is
subconscious selves.
And where I see a
huge interrupter
is sabotaging voice and
the mental judge self,
which we haven't
really gotten into.
>> REGINA: Let's
get into it now.
>> BARSOTTI: OK.
So in the system
that I like to teach,
which is called Personal
Self Integration,
is the seven selves.
So when I was
studying the Steiner
piece and the Egyptian pieces,
these other two additional
selves that I mentioned earlier,
about the nine eyes of light,
and then Steiner taught
that there were nine selves.
What I have found in
studying their teachings is
that those other two selves
are a little bit more--
they're there, but
they're more outside
of our sort of current system.
I found the seven a
nice model to work with.
It's not completely
overwhelming.
It's already
overwhelming to think
that you've got all
these voices going on,
and these internal
conversations.
But I worked with somebody who
had a multiple personality--
five that I counted--
who needed to be in a different
part in my office for every
>> REGINA: Part of
the conversation,
depending on who was there?
>> BARSOTTI: Part
of the conversation.
And one part was mute and
would only draw pictures,
and was fetal, and she
would only draw pictures
when she felt like doing it.
So I was scared to death
about, oh my god, I'm
going to introduce seven
more selves to her?
Not all at once, it
doesn't work like that.
But I invited to the table,
what if there was really
a place for each
of these selves?
And what ended up happening
was, an integration happened.
It didn't happen overnight,
but it felt welcome.
They didn't-- they were like,
I don't want to be drugged
anymore.
I don't want to be told
that I don't exist.
I do exist.
So what was blocking her--
she was highly intuitive.
But what was blocking her
was her mental judge self.
There was a fear,
because there's a core--
so humans have the core fear
of being unworthy and lovable.
The subconscious fears are
being enslaved or annihilated.
And so when we deal with these
deep-rooted subconscious,
unconscious pieces,
maybe there's
something, a belief in
the mental judge self
that's saying, oh no, the last
time we trusted the high self,
we ended up in as a
gladiator in the lion's den.
That was the extent
of our lives.
We're not going
to do that again.
So we have to cure that.
We have to help that.
>> REGINA: So how do you, then--
forget going into direct
communication for higher mind
just yet, because that's
a process for most people.
But where do you even start
listening is a good one.
And maybe that's a
good place to go.
Where do people first notice the
signaling from the higher self?
Is it often in the
body, or emotions, or?
Where do you find, with
most of your clients,
it landed to get their
attention enough to understand
they needed to engage?
>> BARSOTTI: Beautiful,
love the question.
What I find, and trying
to help people with,
is understanding that our
emotions are our guidance
system.
So many people are trying
to squash it, right?
And something I've been
teaching on recently,
in groups and in
private practice,
is, anxiety is not an emotion.
Anxiety is the evidence
that you've been walling off
the emotions, and
that we actually
need to let that stream move.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> BARSOTTI: Right?
So if I can get people to
start getting comfortable
with their emotions,
their guidance system
is part and parcel to that.
So then their language,
however their high self,
besides literally taking them
on a guided imagery meditation
to meet their high self.
Sometimes when that happens--
it actually happens
quite a bit--
the mental judge
self, once again,
will intermit and
say, no, no, no,
or another self that has some
fear or trepidation about going
there.
And then we have
to overcome that.
So what I find is, is that
everybody's signal is a little
bit different, and
how we're going
to get there is
a unique process,
but usually we can land
on, well, what emotion?
What is the sensation?
Go to that gut
feeling, when you knew
you knew you knew
something, and it
was absolutely unquestionable.
And then we build on that.
>> REGINA: Build on
a success, already.
This is another
thing that comes up,
and that is the distinction
between feelings and emotions.
Because to me, there's
a big distinction.
And I might struggle
for words to define it,
but I know the difference
between the two
when I'm experiencing it.
Or that kind of, like
you said, that feeling,
like where a kind of
anxiety or something blows
through like a wind.
For an example, when something
like this, a sense of anxiety--
you're fine, you're
just doing your day--
and it blows through you.
It's like, what
just happened there?
I'm not thinking
an anxious thought,
I don't have any emotions
charged around it.
So let's talk about what
that subtle sense of feelings
is that blow through us.
>> BARSOTTI: I just love you.
Because we get to get into
all of this fun stuff.
So I actually teach as a tool--
I actually have a
handout on this--
is the emotional
discernment tool.
And one of the things that--
so often, many of
us are empaths.
We're feeling not just what
you and I are doing the dance
in a conversation right now--
I'm not feeling your
emotions, though.
You've got your
boundaries, I have mine.
By the way, that's another piece
of the prostitute archetype,
is to have boundaries.
So when a person is feeling
a sense of emotional--
overwhelmed.
Whatever, if it's
anxiety, if all
of a sudden it's overwhelming
sadness and grief,
like they just walked into
this plasma bubble of stuff.
What I teach them is
to ask, is this mine?
So ask-- first question--
>> REGINA: Number
one, is this mine?
>> BARSOTTI: Number
And start to listen to
that intuitive voice, which
is another way of starting to
increase that dialogue that
goes back and forth
for high self.
Is this mine, yes or no.
Listen for the first answer.
If it's yes, OK.
Look at where it
showed up in your body.
Look and see if there was a
memory that got triggered.
Look and see what
the situation was.
>> REGINA: Did a smell or a
word or a sound trigger it?
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
And if it's not yours,
then the next question
is, male or female?
Friend, family, colleague,
situation, environment,
what was it?
Usually by the time
you ask that question
the situation or person
has popped into your mind
and you go, oh, actually--
and in fact, every time
I'm with that person, or
every time I'm in that space,
this is what I feel.
OK, this is not mine.
I can't process somebody
else's emotions for them.
>> REGINA: Right.
This is really
important because a lot
of people that are
watching this show
are very open, very empathic,
probably prostitutes
in the true sense of the word--
I'm one, too.
You know, where you
can't draw boundaries
and you're feeling
everybody else's stuff.
So that's very practical.
Now, when you're looking at
the means of discerning this,
you can just ask and say,
uh-huh, uh-uh, or you
can use divination, for example.
How does your work interface
with using divination
in this process of discernment?
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah.
So for me, I'm pretty
good about teasing out,
because I operate as an
empath for a long time.
There's a PS to this.
The reason that we
usually become empathic
is because we had to keep
ourselves safe in a situation
where we weren't safe.
So we get so good at
reading the landscape
that we forget that,
when we're adults,
that we don't need to be in
that coping realm anymore.
How we coped as kids saved
us, but if we cope that way
as an adult, it can kill us.
And so that's a discerning way
of looking at this, as well.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And so now let's say we've
gotten the first bit,
that's not mine, but we can't--
we don't have the language for
it in terms of our connection
just yet-- the
direct connection.
Can you use divination devices?
>> BARSOTTI: Absolutely.
Pendulums, the personal
muscle testing,
if people aren't
necessarily good
with their fingers
or their hands,
they can just do a sway test.
>> REGINA: Right,
that one's a good one.
Just sway forward or
sway away, it's almost
like you're being pushed back.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
That one seems to be
most obvious to people.
It's the one I like to
give as a tool because--
>> REGINA: Don't
wear high heels.
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: Yeah, so that's
good as a little tool,
because I think this
happens to people.
Because we are so
intertwined, our fields
are so open now, that
everything seems to come in
and we can't tell what's ours at
all anymore, in a lot of cases.
Right?
>> BARSOTTI: It's true.
This discernment, I would
say probably 90% of my week,
I hand out that tool.
If they don't already
know it, then we're
talking about their
exercising of it,
and making sure that they
actually get this as--
you know, it's like
exercising a muscle.
You do need to learn it.
>> REGINA: Is it your feeling
that in the case of literal
multiple personalities,
for example,
that you can have someone
who's literally just taking
on another entity full on,
and that's what's going on.
You're not talking
to one person,
you're talking to literally
several different entities.
Because they're so permeable,
they have no boundaries at all,
right?
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
And I just wanted to
say something, also,
about the prostitute
archetype, because we all
have the prostitute archetype.
Those archetypes of survival
every single one of us has.
So this opportunity, when
we are connecting with--
it's like we get into an
argument with ourselves
and feel like nobody
wins, sometimes.
That's an opportunity.
That's an opportunity
for engagement.
Well, let's sit
down as though I'm
going to have time and
conversation with that part.
Well, what's your
feelings about this?
And this is so,
so, so important.
We, as our outer
self personality,
are calling the shots.
Our subconscious selves
are along for the ride.
If one of them or
more has a fear
about what it is that
we are putting ourselves
in the midst of, there
will be sabotage.
There will be some--
>> REGINA: The subconscious
doesn't allow itself to be
threatened.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
So whether or not that
threat is sensical or not is
a whole other judgment call
that we then have to look at.
But if it is sensical, then that
is something, hey, back off.
Back off from the cliff.
You don't need to be always
so edgy in your life.
What's the reason
that you're going
to say that thing that triggers
the person just because you
can?
That's trying to look
for control and power
over another person, and
that's the misuse of power.
>> REGINA: Right.
What about-- we're talking
about Haley Wilford,
the subconscious
will protect itself.
And it's there to, ultimately,
protect us and signal us
from past experience lodged
in the body and the emotions
and so forth.
So how do you then
reverse that and begin
working with transforming
those aspects?
Or do you ever transform
the subconscious?
>> BARSOTTI: I believe so.
I think it's a reflexive
system just in the same way
that our vagus nerve is.
You know, outward,
inward, inward, outward.
As above, so below.
>> REGINA: So if it can grow
to trust in something higher,
it can begin transforming all
of the pixels of experience
and fear and such that
it's holding onto?
>> BARSOTTI: That is our job
as the outer self personality.
In this conglomeration that we
are of our subconscious selves,
we're in it together.
We're in it together
as a human species,
but we're in it together in
our inner and outer selves.
And so it's all about the trust.
And when we really have
that internal trust of all
of these voices, these
subconscious selves,
then we can also have more
trust in our high self.
And that's really
the key, because we
need to be able to have those
kinds of internal conversations
that, once again, help
us know ourselves.
Understanding the shadow,
understanding the things that
may trigger us, what
are our motivations
for doing X, Y, Z, why are
we doing what we're doing?
And then be able to call
shots from a place of being
fully informed, and fully
engaged, and fully inspired.
>> REGINA: And as
you said earlier,
that has to start with what
you can perceive as the success
that already exists.
When you knew you
knew you knew, I
think you said, were there was
something where you knew and it
turned out to be true.
That's exactly
what was going on.
And so building from there, then
let's talk about the process
that you use for
engaging more dialogue,
more listening to the
whispers of the higher mind.
>> BARSOTTI: Beautiful.
So guided imagery, guided
meditations, is one mechanism.
Oftentimes what I'm listening
for, keenly, in a person
is, where am I hearing
something else be inserted?
And then I'm bringing
the logical mind
to presence with that.
But that then depends
on me, and I'm
trying to learn how to exit
myself out of the system,
because it's all
about teaching people
to do this for themselves.
So when I give somebody a
tool such as a meditation
and I record the session, and
they can go back and listen
to it as often as they need
to in order to get the a-has,
there's so much more said than
is currently consciously being
registered.
And it's like, the
session continues.
So this guided imagery,
guided meditation--
it's not guided imagery,
I shouldn't say that.
It's a guided meditation
that is really phenomenal,
because the person that
says I've never done this,
I've never been successful.
And yet where did all
that just come from?
I couldn't make this up.
Could I?
Could I make it up?
Am I making it up?
And I was like, you
can't really make it up.
Go back and listen, and
you will hear the wisdom
that's being offered to you.
>> REGINA: Yes.
One little tidbit in
that I like to share,
whether I'm doing a workshop or
a lecture or whatnot, is this.
It's so simple.
That your days are peppered with
these little sparks of desire,
and we usually don't
think much of it.
We usually say, oh, it's
nice, and ride past it,
I don't have time for that.
You don't really dial in.
And all of these little moments
of desire, these little sparks,
like, oh, that's beautiful.
It's inviting you to engage
with that moment on some level.
It can be anything.
It can be a mother tickling
her little baby or something.
To move into that,
because that's
putting off a frequency
that your being is
desiring in that moment.
To anything.
To getting this whim that passes
through, in my case, like,
so-and-so is blue, bake them
something and take it over
or whatever.
You know?
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah.
>> REGINA: But all these little
sparks of desire are working
toward a refined connection with
the higher mind and the more
ordinary lower mind, or common,
every day, conscious mind.
And just listening and following
these little sparks of desire
actually open up much larger
pathways for communications
beyond these little
momentary things.
So please expand on that.
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah, thank you.
This is so key, because
that's inspiration.
And sometimes when I'm
working with people
that have been steeped in
the Buddhist tradition,
right, they've been
taught that desire is bad.
And I'm like, no!
OK, the very thought
of you saying
that you don't
want to have desire
is still having a desire.
So how do you unite
yourself from that knot?
But the point is, is
that spirituality,
or being inspired, it's the
animation of spirit within us.
And to be inspired is to have
the breath of that spirit,
in spiritu.
It's the breath of life.
So those little
nuggets of desire,
of inspiration to follow,
go take this to somebody,
say this something, compliment
this person in this way,
follow it.
It's so dynamic.
Thank you for saying that.
>> REGINA: Well, and it does
create a larger highway of data
flowing through than these
simple little things.
It begins developing
that beautiful trust
factor between the
everyday experience
and the whisperings
of the higher mind.
And what better way to do it
than through an invitation that
has a beautiful desire attached
to it than someone trying
to pound it down your throat?
You know.
That's no way to get there.
You need to do this, you
have to do this, that's not
a pathway to open exploration.
>> BARSOTTI: No.
And shoulds.
Shoulds, ought to,
need to, have to.
These are--
>> REGINA: Those are like
poison to the spirit.
>> BARSOTTI: Well,
It's actually ego.
And I like the definition
of edging god out,
but the ego is meant to
be incorporated, right?
Because we still need
to have a sense of self.
So these ought to,
should, need to, have to--
what I love the saying is, is
that what we said at school is,
thou shall not
should on thyself.
[LAUGHTER]
>> REGINA: So let's say, OK,
you have a deadline coming,
and maybe you've been
procrastinating a little, oh,
I really should get
around to this, whatever.
How do you deal with that?
>> BARSOTTI: Priorities.
Look at what needs
to be prioritized.
All of us, we could ourselves
in the pants, oftentimes.
I know that I need to--
but if you don't have,
really, the energy
lined up to do it,
go do something that gives
yourself a discharge.
>> REGINA: You're right on.
>> BARSOTTI: Right?
Give yourself an opportunity
to go and do something else
and then come back to it.
Einstein got the
theory of relativity--
whether right or wrong, that's
a side conversation-- riding
his bicycle.
>> REGINA: Right.
That's where-- there's a book--
God, I read it 20 years
ago-- on the inspirations
of all the great
breakthroughs that happened.
They were all riding a bus,
dreaming, on their bicycle,
or whatnot.
When they were freeing
themselves-- and I'm
a big devotee of this.
If I'm putting something
off and procrastinating,
the time is here, then I go do
something else that I enjoy.
That's it.
And then I'm refreshed,
and it's like, OK.
Make yourself a cup of
tea and let's get at it.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
Imagination, it's so important.
>> REGINA: You have to
refresh the soul with things--
the spirit with the things that
we do desire and that we do
enjoy.
>> BARSOTTI: And this
is usually where?
When we get into those shoulds,
ought to, need to, have to,
take a page from
the inner child.
Because the inner child
is probably tugging,
let's get outside,
let's go do something.
Let's distract
ourselves for a moment
and then come back to it.
>> REGINA: I think
mine is alive and well.
OK, we have a few
minutes left, but I
wanted to get to
this other-- it's
another Guthrie and Carish I
think were their names, right?
They teach another four
kind of architects,
and this is kind
of fun, you know,
if people are reading
your papers or whatnot,
and this is the elemental,
devic, outer spatial,
and angelic archetypes, of which
most of us are a combination.
But let's talk about why you
find that particular system
of value.
>> BARSOTTI: Oh it's so handy,
because as we are a blend
of these energies,
when we meet--
and I've met a lot
of them, because I
used to be in technology--
so outer spatial types.
They happen to be
wired for being
able to do technological
things, but not always
are they sociably wired, right?
They're sometimes uncomfortable,
that's not how they want to do.
So it's--
>> REGINA: Can you just stay
with the logic of what I was
talking about, please?
No deviations, please.
>> BARSOTTI: Don't challenge me
to have an interrelationship--
>> REGINA: There are
time I have that, too.
No, no, I'm just trying to
stay with this line of thought.
And other people want to
have fun and go other places,
and I have to adjust.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
So the outer spatial type
is that type of person.
Well, the best way to relate
to an outer spatial type
is to compliment them.
Ground them in.
Find something to
praise them about.
Compliment may be
too strong of a word,
praise is like, I
appreciate the work
that you did on bla-de-bla.
That code you wrote for
this was just pure genius.
>> REGINA: So what does
this-- how does this break
the pattern?
>> BARSOTTI: What it does is,
it says that you see them.
You see them for
who they are, you're
not trying to change them.
But what the outer
spatials are here to learn
is how to have an emotional
experience on Earth.
Well, they're overwhelmed.
So we can help them by just
giving them a little praise,
by telling them that we see
them and we acknowledge them
for who they are.
>> REGINA: So let's
talk about the devic.
We'll go through each
one, because it's fun.
>> BARSOTTI: It is.
I find it so helpful.
And I give this
list of attributes
to people, especially
in business,
to help them relate to
their employees better.
And you know if you're
hiring the right person
in the right frame,
when you know
that they're a dominant
person, let's say, is devic.
So the devic type are
the highly creative.
They love projects.
And we all have devic in us.
Our mental judge self
and our astral judge self
are primarily devic.
Love sinking our
teeth into things.
Well, they need
to be acknowledged
for their creative abilities,
but what can happen
is sort of the shadow
aspect, is that they
can get lost in the deva
aspects, where they're just
show off in la la land having
the experience of being
creative that they
forget to be grounded,
and that's where the
elemental comes in.
>> REGINA: OK.
Talk about that.
So the elemental
are literally coming
from the elemental kingdom.
Steiner spoke a lot
about this, right?
So the elemental
kingdom is literally
of the rocks, of the
earth, of minerals,
and they ground us in.
So let's say that there's
a couple of-- at odds here.
When we all-- usually
we have this combination
of elemental and devic that
want to play the game together.
Well, if we're especially
being devic, and not elemental
enough, it's very frustrating
for the elemental part.
So the elemental, if we
acknowledge it, can say, OK.
Help me be grounded in
the fact that I actually
need to get this, now, done.
I don't want to just continue
off and end up in Pluto
by the time I get done
with this project.
I need to still
ground it in reality.
And our elemental parts
can help us do that.
>> REGINA: Let's talk
about the angelic parts.
>> BARSOTTI: Yeah, so the
angelic is both the shadow
and the light side,
very highly resourced.
And we can so--
a good example is somebody
who thinks that time is just
a mere suggestion,
and the angelic types
are the type that,
like, we have plenty.
We don't need to
worry about that.
It's coming, it's all
good, but it may not
be very grounded in reality.
It's great to have the belief,
but it may not be actualizable
And the angelic will help give
us the aha that, oh, my god,
this is going to be possible.
We can attain that goal.
It's like the impossible,
impossible dream,
and the angelic can help us
actually dream the impossible.
And then we need the other
parts to actually help
it be realized.
>> REGINA: The shadow
side of that I noticed--
because I live in Sedona, and
there are a lot of angelic
types, but the other
side of that is delusion.
It's like, no, it doesn't
actually work like that.
If you don't engage
the other parts,
you're just going to be drifting
and living in your car soon.
And there's a lot of that.
>> BARSOTTI: And that's exactly
what we're talking about,
right?
We're just thinking, oh, my next
thing will arrive, it'll be OK,
but they haven't done
anything to take action.
And it's great to be in
such faith and trust,
that's a beautiful
thing, but we have
to do it with some assembly
of the total picture and not
just--
>> REGINA: Where
heaven and earth meet.
>> BARSOTTI: Where heaven
and earth meet, well said.
And that would be, if our
angelic parts can get along
with our elemental
parts can get along
with our outer spatial parts can
get along with our devic parts,
now we've got all parts of
the puzzle working together.
>> TIFFANY BARSOTTI: Yes.
OK, now, we only have
a few minutes left.
Let's just address-- because
everyone deals with it--
when these kinds of basic fears
that grip us and sabotage just
come up from the
subconscious because
of its fear of annihilation
and enslavement,
what is the best way to
engage with those kind
of gut-gripping
situations that come up?
And you know they're dragging
you back down, you can feel it.
>> BARSOTTI: Yes.
So immediately, say thank you.
You don't even know
why it's happening,
but to start shifting the
energy towards thank you.
We were just recently in
Tibet, a travel day from hell--
getting back.
>> REGINA: From
the lower realms.
>> BARSOTTI: Right.
And I was literally jumping
up and down in the airport,
like, no, we're going to--
anyway, I had to shift to
say, just say thank you.
I don't know why I'm
saying thank you,
but there's always
something for us
to learn in these situations.
And so I'm trying to get
it right then and there,
but let me take something
that's not so just travel day.
Something that is a true, like,
oh my god, this is happening--
or it's happening
again, where we're
just sort of stripped
of all of who we
think that we were capable of.
There's a reason for it.
And we may not be
able to see it,
but if we just ground ourselves
into whatever that moment is
and just say, I know that there
is something for me to learn
and extract from it,
I know that there
is something for me to get.
Master Du-al Kul, which is some
of what my thesis was based on,
those teachings, when I work
with him and he comes through,
the question is always,
what are you learning?
What are you learning?
And you may not be
able to ask yourself
that in those moments--
>> REGINA: Maybe it
comes in a dream.
>> BARSOTTI: It does.
>> REGINA: Maybe it
makes sense tomorrow.
>> BARSOTTI: Exactly.
But if you just open
yourself up to the idea
that there could be
some other reasons
that this is happening--
>> REGINA: And don't react in
the moment and shut it down.
Don't shut the possibility
down that's showing itself.
So you thank it.
>> BARSOTTI: Thank it.
That immediately
shifts the energy.
Immediately.
And you know, my beloved,
I'm so lucky that I actually
get to work with my divine
love, and that's Paul Mills,
and he's a scientist at UCSD.
He actually did
gratitude research,
and showed that the inflammatory
changes at the heart
change as soon as you
go into gratitude.
I mean, there's
biomedical research
that says as soon as
we go into gratitude
we shift the whole
neurotransmitter
cascade into something that
changes for the positive.
>> REGINA: You can feel
the cascade in your body.
>> BARSOTTI: You can.
>> REGINA: So on that
note, any final thoughts?
Because we're out of time.
This has been really fun.
>> BARSOTTI: Love it.
Thank you so much.
That piece with the archetypes
of survival to the archetypes
of grace and evolving,
those archetypes--
>> REGINA: You talked about
bits of methods to do that,
but go ahead.
>> BARSOTTI: That piece is on
Huffington Post and SFGate,
the San Francisco Chronicle.
>> REGINA: Well, it's
on your site, isn't it?
So you have links to it?
>> BARSOTTI: I did, yes.
We invited Deepak Chopra, and
Paul and I-- the three of us
really wrote that
piece together.
So I'm going to be
expounding on that,
and I'm working on a book
for it-- those ideas.
>> REGINA: Excellent.
OK, well I'll send
people there right now.
Thanks so much Tiffany,
we'll do this again.
I always love chatting with you.
>> BARSOTTI: Me too.
>> REGINA: It's
really beautiful.
Again, to connect with
Tiffany and her work,
you can go to
HealandThrive.com, and you'll
find those articles there.
Meanwhile, if you
enjoyed this interview,
you can go to our
previous interview
here in the Gaia archives.
Until next time.
Thank you for joining
us here on Open Minds.
[MUSIC PLAYING]